Implement best-practice Source documentation (#201)
knative-sandbox/eventing-rabbitmq: source/README.adoc

:toc:
:toc-placement!:
= RabbitMQ Source

> The RabbitMQ source translates messages on a RabbitMQ exchange to CloudEvents
> over HTTP for use with Knative Eventing. The Source can bind to an existing
> exchange or create a new one, as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RabbitMQ source translates messages from a RabbitMQ exchange to CloudEvents, which can then be used with Knative Eventing over HTTP.
The source can bind to an existing RabbitMQ exchange, or create a new exchange if required.
```

Author: (This is suggesting sentence-per-line?)

Reviewer: If you look at it it's actually suggestions for slightly different wording and to make it more consistent, but yeah I'd format this as suggested to make it more readable. Up to you though.

toc::[]

> == Published Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Published events
```

Author: Shouldn't this be title case?

> All messages received by the Source will be published with the following schema:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All messages received by the source will be published with the following schema:
```

Use lowercase consistently for source IMHO

Author: Done (lowercasing)

> .Table Event Attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Event attributes
```

Author: Ha! I mis-read the asciidoc cheat-sheet. Thanks!

|===
| Attribute | Value | Notes

| `type` | `dev.knative.rabbitmq.event` |
| `source` | `/apis/v1/namespace/*$NS*/rabbitmqsources/*$NAME*#*$TOPIC*`
   | `NS`, `NAME` and `TOPIC` are derived from the Source configuration.

> | `id` | a unique id | This uses the MessageId if available, and a UUID otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | A unique ID | This uses the `MessageId` if available, and a UUID otherwise.
```

> | `subject` | the message's id | empty string if no message ID is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `subject` | The ID of the message | Empty string if no message ID is present.
```

Author: Done.

| `datacontenttype` | `application/json` | Currently static.

> | `key` | the message's id | empty string if no message ID is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `key` | The ID of the message | Empty string if no message ID is present.
```

|===

> The event's payload will be set to the data content of the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The payload of the event is set to the data content of the message.
```
Use present tense instead of future consistently, and avoid possessives, e.g. "event's" where possible.

Author: Done.

=== Samples

> (in CloudEvents JSON format):

Reviewer 2: Since there's if/else in the payload (for example, subject is empty string if no message ID is present), I wonder if we should also include a RabbitMQ message as input and then showing how it gets transformed into a CloudEvent.

Author: Interestingly, it seems like the ability to publish a rabbitmq event from the command line is harder than I'd expect. I found a `rabbitmqadmin` here that can do it: https://www.rabbitmq.com/management-cli.html

> (in CloudEvents JSON format):

Reviewer: Avoid unnecessary parenthesis, suggest:
.CloudEvent JSON format

[source,json]
----
{
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "type": "dev.knative.rabbitmq.event",
  "source": "/apis/v1/namespaces/default/rabbitmqsources/rabbitmq-source",
  "id": "f00c1f52-33a1-4d3d-993f-750f20c804da",
  "time": "2020-12-18T01:15:20.450860898Z",
  "subject": "",
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "key": "",
  "data": "Hello rabbitmq!"
}
----

> == Creating and Managing Sources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating and managing sources
```
Sentence case headings

Author: Done.

> 

Reviewer: Seems like there's an extra line here

Author: There's a thin rule after each H2 section -- you can see the same thing at "Administration" and "Published events". Note that both of those have text immediately following, rather than a table.

> .Table Source Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Source parameters
```

|===
| Field | Value

| `spec.brokers` | Host+Port of the Broker, with a trailing "/"

> | `user.secretKeyRef` | Username for broker auth; field `key` in a Kubernetes Secret named `name`

Reviewer: Keep lower case consistently, e.g. "broker", "secret"
Don't shorten words like "auth"

Author: Done

| `password.secretKeyRef` | Password for broker auth; field `key` in a Kubernetes Secret named `name`
| `topic` | The topic for the exchange
| `exchange_config` | Settings for the exchange

> | `exchange_config.type` | https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/amqp-concepts.html#exchanges[Exchange type]. Can be "fanout", "direct", "topic", "match" or "headers"

Reviewer: I'd use `this formatting` instead of "this"

Author: Done.

| `exchange_config.durable` | Boolean
| `exchange_config.auto_deleted` | Boolean
| `exchange_config.internal` | Boolean
| `exchange_config.nowait` | Boolean
| `queue_config` | Settings for the queue
| `queue_config.name` | Name of the queue (may be empty)
| `queue_config.routing_key` | Routing key for the queue
| `queue_config.durable` | Boolean
| `queue_config.delete_when_unused` | Boolean
| `queue_config.exclusive` | Boolean
| `queue_config.nowait` | Boolean

> | `sink` | A reference to an https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/#event-consumers[Addressable] Kubernetes object.

Reviewer: Also, either decide to use periods/full-stops or not - I see these mixed and matched in the table, but I'd probably just leave them off since there are a ton of partial sentences

Author: Removed all the periods at the end of lines in tables.

|===

> The following example object assumes a secret created with the following:

Reviewer: Worded sort of awkwardly, this sentence doesn't really tell me anything about the object?

----
kubectl create secret generic rabbitmq-secret \
  --from-literal=user=rabbit-user \
  --from-file=password=/tmp/password
----

> Note that not all parameters need to be specified; unspecified parameters will be
> defaulted false / empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that not all parameters must be specified.
Unspecified optional parameters default to `false` or empty, depending on the parameter.
```

Author: I rewrote this a little more:

> Note that many parameters do not need to be specified. Unspecified optional
> parameters will be defaulted to `false` / or `""` (empty string).

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: RabbitmqSource
metadata:
  name: rabbitmq-source

> spec:

Reviewer: I'd maybe put something like `<optional>` or add call outs for optional fields?

> spec:

Author: Done, not sure if that's what you were thinking of.

  brokers: "rabbitmq:5672/"
  user:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: "rabbitmq-secret"
      key: "user"
  password:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: "rabbitmq-secret"
      key: "password"
  exchange_config:
    type: "fanout"
    durable: true
    auto_deleted: false
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
----

> == Administration

Reviewer: Not sure I like this in the one file, I think the idea was more that there would be an introduction "guide" with conceptual info etc and then an Admin guide with all of this info as a separate page. Also, I would avoid having any heading that is directly followed by another heading with nothing between; there should be some paragraph or something here explaining what this admin section is

=== Prerequisites

> You will need a https://www.rabbitmq.com/[RabbitMQ] installation. On Kubernetes,
> you can use
> https://www.rabbitmq.com/kubernetes/operator/operator-overview.html[the RabbitMQ
> operator] to set up a RabbitMQ installation. An understanding of RabbitMQ
> concepts like Brokers, Exchanges, and Queues will alos be helpful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A https://www.rabbitmq.com/[RabbitMQ] installation. On Kubernetes, you can use https://www.rabbitmq.com/kubernetes/operator/operator-overview.html[the RabbitMQ
operator] to set up a RabbitMQ installation.
* An understanding of RabbitMQ concepts like Brokers, Exchanges, and Queues.
```

Heading prerequisites negates need for bits like "you will need", and the "helpful" bit etc should be removed - something's either needed and should be listed here or isn't IMHO

Author: Done.

=== Installation

> Install from the nightly build:
> 
> [source,sh]
> ----
> kubectl apply -f https://storage.googleapis.com/knative-nightly/eventing-rabbitmq/latest/rabbitmq-source.yaml
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install the source from the nightly build:

[source,sh]
----
kubectl apply -f https://storage.googleapis.com/knative-nightly/eventing-rabbitmq/latest/rabbitmq-source.yaml
----
```

=== Configuration Options

> The standard `config-observability`, `config-logging` et al ConfigMaps may be
> used to manage the logging and metrics configuration.

Reviewer: No et al please :) 
```suggestion
The standard `config-observability` and `config-logging` ConfigMaps may be
used to manage the logging and metrics configuration.
```

Reviewer: Some samples or links here?

Author: I'm not sure we have good ones right now, let me link the bad ones (the configmaps in the Eventing repo).

:toc:
:toc-placement!:
= RabbitMQ Source

> The RabbitMQ source translates messages on a RabbitMQ exchange to CloudEvents,
> which can then be used with Knative Eventing over HTTP. The source can bind to
> an existing RabbitMQ exchange, or create a new exchange if required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RabbitMQ source translates messages on a RabbitMQ exchange to CloudEvents,
which can then be used with Knative Eventing over HTTP. The RabbitMQ source can bind to
an existing RabbitMQ exchange, or create a new exchange if required.
```

Reviewer: Can we clarify what's meant here by "can then be used with Knative Eventing over HTTP" - used with how?

Author: Added more detail linking to the eventing Addressable concept.

toc::[]

== Published events

> All messages received by the source are published with the following schema:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All messages received by the RabbitMQ event source are published with the following schema:
```

> .Event attributes
> |===
> | Attribute | Value | Notes
> 
> | `type` | `dev.knative.rabbitmq.event` |
> | `source` | `/apis/v1/namespace/*$NS*/rabbitmqsources/*$NAME*#*$TOPIC*`
>    | `NS`, `NAME` and `TOPIC` are derived from the source configuration
> | `id` | A unique ID | This uses the `MessageId` if available, and a UUID otherwise
> | `subject` | The ID of the message | Empty string if no message ID is present
> | `datacontenttype` | `application/json` | Currently static
> | `key` | The ID of the message | Empty string if no message ID is present
> |===
> 
> The payload of the event is set to the data content of the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,json]
----
{
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "type": "dev.knative.rabbitmq.event",
  "source": "/apis/v1/namespaces/<namespace>/rabbitmqsources/<name>#<topic>", <1>
  "id": "<unique_ID>", <2>
  "time": "<timestamp>",
  "subject": "", <3>
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "key": "", <4>
  "data": "Hello rabbitmq!" <5>
}
----
<1> `<namespace>`, `<name>` and `<topic>` are derived from the source configuration.
<2> Uses the `MessageId` if available, and a UUID otherwise.
<3> The ID of the message, or an empty string if no message ID is present.
<4> The ID of the message, or an empty string if no message ID is present.
<5> The payload of the event is set to the data content of the message.
```

Reviewer: Rather than the table, I'd suggest showing the actual schema as an example like this, where there are callouts describing any variables

Author: So no table at all? I have the actual schema in the example, though with values filled in.

> === Samples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Example
```
Let's maybe change this in the template to example rather than samples

Author: RabbitMQ only has one type of event, but that might not be true of all sources. Do we still want an example in addition to the sample schema format instead of event attributes?

For a message published with the payload "Hello rabbitmq!", for example with

> https://www.rabbitmq.com/management-cli.html[`rabbitmqadmin`]:

Reviewer: what does it mean here "with `rabbitmqadmin`"?

Author: "Using the `rabbitmqadmin` tool to publish a message."

You can also send the same message by writing python, java, etc code, but having a CLI makes it easy to test out if things are working.

| `exchange_config.durable` {optional} | Boolean
| `exchange_config.auto_deleted` {optional} | Boolean
| `exchange_config.internal` {optional} | Boolean
| `exchange_config.nowait` {optional} | Boolean
| `queue_config` {optional} | Settings for the queue
| `queue_config.name` {optional} | Name of the queue (may be empty)
| `queue_config.routing_key` {optional} | Routing key for the queue
| `queue_config.durable` {optional} | Boolean
| `queue_config.delete_when_unused` {optional} | Boolean
| `queue_config.exclusive` {optional} | Boolean
| `queue_config.nowait` {optional} | Boolean
| `sink` | A reference to an https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/#event-consumers[Addressable] Kubernetes object
|===

{optional} These attributes are optional.

You will need a Kubernetes Secret to hold the RabbitMQ username and
password. The following command is one way to create a secret with the username
`rabbit-user` and the password taken from the `/tmp/password` file.
----
kubectl create secret generic rabbitmq-secret \
  --from-literal=user=rabbit-user \
  --from-file=password=/tmp/password

> ----

Reviewer: This is buried for something that looks important, I don't like the structure of this "Creating and managing sources" section, because a user will come here looking for a clear procedure and instead it's a lot of confusing reference type info

Author: Each source needs some credentials (username/password) for connecting to the RabbitMQ instance. Something along these lines will be pretty typical.

I can change the second sentence to "with `kubectl`:" or "For example:"; there are a lot of different ways the secret *could* be populated, and we've got this in here simply to show an easy way to kick the tires.
